Added topics: divider, splitter, select (#554)
IgniteUI/indigo-design-docfx: en/components/splitter.md

---
title: Splitter - Design System Component
_description: The Splitter Component Symbol creates layouts split into panes that may be resized, expanded, and collapsed.
_keywords: Design Systems, Design Systems UX, UI kit, Sketch, Ignite UI for Angular, Sketch to Angular, Sketch to Angular, Angular, Angular Design System, Export code from Sketch, Design Kits for Angular, Sketch HTML, Sketch to HTML, Sketch UI kits
---

# Splitter

> Use the Splitter Component to create dynamic layouts split into vertically or horizontally arranged panes. Panes are separated by the splitter bars that allow dragging to resize or expand and collapse the adjacent layout items. The Splitter is visually identical to the [Ignite UI for Angular Splitter Component](https://www.infragistics.com/products/ignite-ui-angular/angular/components/splitter.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the Splitter Component to create dynamic layouts split into vertically or horizontally arranged panes. Panes are separated by the splitter bars that allow dragging to resize or expand/collapse the adjacent layout items. The Splitter is visually identical to the [Ignite UI for Angular Splitter Component](https://www.infragistics.com/products/ignite-ui-angular/angular/components/splitter.html).
```

## Splitter Demo

<img class="responsive-img" src="../images/splitter_demo.png" srcset="../images/splitter_demo@2x.png 2x" />

## Orientation

The Splitter supports two orientations: **Vertical** and Horizontal. The vertical splitter is used to split panes horizontally, and the horizontal splitter is used to split panes vertically.

<img class="responsive-img" src="../images/splitter_orientation.png" srcset="../images/splitter_orientation@2x.png 2x" />

## Nested Panes

> The Splitter consists of at least one bar and two panes. The panes are placeholders, and the splitter bar is between them to allow resizing by dragging its handle or expanding and collapsing by clicking the arrows. You can nest splitter components to create a more complex layout inside a splitter pane like below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Splitter consists of at least one bar and two panes. The panes are placeholders, and the splitter bar is between them to allow resizing by dragging its handle or expand/collapse by clicking the arrow icons on the bar. You can nest splitter components to create more elaborate layouts in a fashion like it is shown below.
```
